--Review the following scenario. Then complete the step-by-step instructions.

--For this activity, imagine you are a data analyst working for the superintendent of a large public school district in Portugal. 
The superintendent wants to know what factors affect student grades in core subjects and what changes can be made to improve student performance. 
Your team is going to analyze performance data on high school student achievement in two Portuguese public schools, Gabriel Pereira (GP) and Mouzinho da Silveira (MS). 
The data was collected by the school district by means of academic reports and student surveys. 
The data includes information such as:

1. Student grades
2. Student background information 
3. Student study time
4. Student participation in extracurricular activities

However, before analyzing the data, it’s important to make sure the data is clean. 
Analyzing bad or dirty data could cause the school district to reach the wrong conclusions and implement ineffective changes. 
Your assignment is to help clean the data. 

1. Clean your data
--The superintendent’s main objective is to determine what factors drive student performance. 
To begin answering this question, the columns you want to focus on first are school, age, reason, Medu, Fedu. 
You can use sorting and filtering to clean the data in each of these columns. 


2. Sort Data
--Because you have data from two schools, Gabriel Pereira (GP) and Mouzinho da Silveira (MS), you can start by sorting the data by school. 
Then, you can also sort by age to discover the age ranges of the students for each school. 
Sorting involves arranging data into a meaningful order to make it easier to understand, analyze, and visualize. 


3. Filter Data
--The superintendent tells you that the maximum age limit for which public education is provided is 19 years old and that the age range should be 15-19 for both schools. 
Any student outside this age range should be deleted from the dataset. 


4. Fill in missing data

--Filling in missing data is an important part of data cleaning. It’s your job to fill in these blank spaces in your data with accurate values.
The superintendent wants to know what factors influence student performance, and a student’s reason for choosing a specific school will be important to know for analysis. 
The reason column shows the main reason a student chose to enroll in a specific school, according to their survey response: for example, because of the school’s reputation, or because it offers certain courses,  etc. 
So, you need to make sure the reason column is complete and without blanks. 


5. Convert Data

--During the data analysis process, it's sometimes necessary to change text data (words) to numeric data (numbers). 
For example, some statistical packages like those used to perform machine learning will only accept numeric data values as input. 
In this case, the superintendent wants to know if a parent’s education level is a significant factor in student performance. 
The relevant data is in the Medu and Fedu columns--which, respectively, refer to the level of education of a student’s mother and father. 
Currently, the data is in text format. For the purposes of analysis, it will be useful to know the average education level of each student’s parents. 
To make this calculation, you first need to convert the data in the Medu and Fedu columns to number format.

